.bd B 3
.TH armadv 1 "Jul 28, 2015" "TI Tools" "TI Code Generation Tools"
.SH NAME
armadv - Utility for advice-build info for CCS Optimizer Assistant
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B armadv
[
.I options
] [
.I file(s)
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generates compiler advice and performance results info for CCS Optimizer Assistant.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are accepted by this tool:
.SS Options:
.SS
.TP
--diag_wrap[=on,off]
Set diagnostic messages to wrap at 79 columns (on) or not (off). The argument to the option is optional, and if not specified it will default to: off
.TP
-h
Print a help message that includes usage and option information.
.TP
-v
Prints verbose text output.
.SS Options for updating advice:
.SS
.TP
-@=path_and_filename
Read options from specified file and pass to shell options.
.TP
--advice_file=path_and_filename
Output file name for xml advice for CCS advice view.
.TP
--benchmarks_file=path_and_filename
XML benchmark results file for CCS build wizard view.
.TP
--xml_link_info=path_and_filename
Absolute path and file name for xml_link_info.
.SS Options for generating build wizard updates:
.SS
.TP
--benchmark:event=start,append,end
Build wizard run notification (start, append, end)
.TP
--benchmark:option=option
Build wizard option being varied.
.TP
--benchmark:option_value=opt_value
Build wizard: setting for option being varied.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following error values are returned:
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B >0
Unsuccessful completion; an error occured.
.PD
.SH COPYRIGHT
.TP
Copyright (c) 2015, Texas Instruments, Inc.
